docs/content/guides/gitops.md, before:

# GitOps

This guide describe a declarative way to deploy Kubernetes add-ons across multiple Tenant Clusters, the GitOps-way. An admin may need to apply a specific workload into Tenant Clusters and ensure is constantly reconciled, no matter what the tenants will do in their clusters. Examples include installing monitoring agents, ensuring specific policies, installing infrastructure operators like Cert Manager and so on.

This way the tenant resources can be ensured from a single pane of glass, from the *Management Cluster*.

## Installing Kamaji with GitOps

For GitOps workflows using tools like FluxCD or ArgoCD, the kamaji-crds chart enables separate CRD management:

```yaml
# Step 1: HelmRelease for CRDs
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: kamaji-crds
  namespace: kamaji-system
spec:
  interval: 10m
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: kamaji-crds
      version: 0.0.0+latest
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: clastix
        namespace: flux-system
---
# Step 2: HelmRelease for operator
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: kamaji
  namespace: kamaji-system
spec:
  interval: 10m
  dependsOn:
    - name: kamaji-crds
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: kamaji
      version: 0.0.0+latest
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: clastix
        namespace: flux-system
```

!!! note "CRD Management Options"
    The kamaji chart includes CRDs in its `crds/` directory. Using the separate kamaji-crds chart is optional and beneficial for:

    - GitOps workflows requiring separate CRD lifecycle management
    - Organizations with policies requiring separate CRD approval
    - Scenarios where CRD updates must precede operator updates

    For standard installations, using the kamaji chart alone is sufficient.

## Flux as the GitOps operator

As GitOps ensures a constant reconciliation to a Git-versioned desired state, [Flux](https://fluxcd.io) can satisfy the requirement of those scenarios. In particular, the controllers that reconcile [resources](https://fluxcd.io/flux/concepts/#reconciliation) support communicating to external clusters.

In this scenario the Flux toolkit would run in the *Management Cluster*, with reconcile controllers reconciling resources into *Tenant Clusters*.

![Architecture](../images/kamaji-flux.png)

This is something possible as the Flux reconciliation Custom Resources specifications provide ability to specify `Secret` which contain a `kubeconfig` - here you can find the related documentation for both [`Kustomization`](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomization/#remote-clusters--cluster-api) and [`HelmRelease`](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/helm/helmreleases/#remote-clusters--cluster-api) CRs.

## Quickstart

Once a `TenantControlPlane` is [deployed](https://kamaji.clastix.io/getting-started/#deploy-tenant-control-plane), the kubeconfig for the admin user can be found in a `Secret` named as *<tenant name>-admin-kubeconfig*, in the same `Namespace` where the resource has been created.

Let's suppose a `TenantControlPlane` named *tenant1* has been deployed in the *tenants* `Namespace`, a `Secret` named *tenant1-admin-kubeconfig* is created in the *tenants* `Namespace`.


```shell
$ kubectl get tenantcontrolplanes.kamaji.clastix.io -n tenants
NAME      VERSION   STATUS   CONTROL-PLANE-ENDPOINT   KUBECONFIG                 AGE
tenant1   v1.25.1   Ready    172.18.0.2:31443         tenant1-admin-kubeconfig   108s
```

!!! info "Admin Permissions"
    As the *admin* user has *cluster-admin* `ClusterRole` it will have the necessary privileges to operate on Custom Resources too.

Given that Flux it's installed in the *Management Cluster* - guide [here](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/) - resources can be ensured for specifics Tenant Clusters, by filling the `spec.kubeConfig` field of the Flux reconciliation resource.

For example, it might be needed to ensure [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) is installed into a *tenant1* cluster with Helm. It can be done by declaring an `HelmRelease` as follows:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmRepository
metadata:
  name: jetstack
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1m
  url: 	https://charts.jetstack.io
---
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: tenant1-cert-manager
  namespace: tenants
spec:
  interval: 5m
  kubeConfig:
    secretRef:
      name: tenant1-admin-kubeconfig
      key: admin.conf
  targetNamespace: default
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: cert-manager
      version: v1.10.1
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: jetstack
        namespace: flux-system
      interval: 1m
  values:
    replicaCount: 2
```

and applying it in the *Management Cluster*, alongside the related *jetstack* `HelmRepository`, in the *tenants* `Namespace`.

The result would be having Cert Manager installed in the *default* `Namespace` of the tenant *tenant1*'s cluster:

```shell
$ kubectl get secret -n tenants tenant1-admin-kubeconfig -o=jsonpath='{.data.admin\.conf}' | base64 -d > /tmp/tenant-1.kubeconfig
$ kubectl --kubeconfig /tmp/tenant-1.kubeconfig get deploy -n default
NAME                              READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
tenant1-cert-manager              2/2     2            2           4m3s
tenant1-cert-manager-cainjector   1/1     1            1           4m3s
tenant1-cert-manager-webhook      1/1     1            1           4m3s
```

No matter what the tenant users will do on the *Tenant Cluster*, the Flux reconciliation controllers wirunning in the *Management Cluster* will ensure the desired state declared by the reconciliation resources applied existing in the *Management Cluster*, will be reconciled in the *Tenant Cluster*.

Furthermore, this approach does not need to have in each Tenant Cluster nor Flux neither applied the related reconciliation Custom Resorces.

Commit message:

feat: complete Steward rebrand from Kamaji
Complete rebrand of Clastix Kamaji fork to Butler Labs Steward.

Core Changes:
- Module: github.com/butlerdotdev/steward
- API group: steward.butlerlabs.dev/v1alpha1
- Container: ghcr.io/butlerdotdev/steward
- Namespace: steward-system
- Helm charts: charts/steward/, charts/steward-crds/

Removed:
- Clastix telemetry client and controller
- Clastix maintainer references
- Commercial/paywall messaging

Added:
- Dockerfile for container builds
- NOTICE file with Apache 2.0 attribution

Testing:
- 68 unit tests passing
- Build verified
- CRD generation verified
- Container image built and pushed
- Helm installation verified on live cluster
- All controllers starting correctly

Image: ghcr.io/butlerdotdev/steward:v0.1.0-alpha

Based on Kamaji by Clastix Labs (Apache 2.0)

docs/content/guides/gitops.md, after:

# GitOps

This guide describe a declarative way to deploy Kubernetes add-ons across multiple Tenant Clusters, the GitOps-way. An admin may need to apply a specific workload into Tenant Clusters and ensure is constantly reconciled, no matter what the tenants will do in their clusters. Examples include installing monitoring agents, ensuring specific policies, installing infrastructure operators like Cert Manager and so on.

This way the tenant resources can be ensured from a single pane of glass, from the *Management Cluster*.

## Installing Steward with GitOps

For GitOps workflows using tools like FluxCD or ArgoCD, the steward-crds chart enables separate CRD management:

```yaml
# Step 1: HelmRelease for CRDs
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: steward-crds
  namespace: steward-system
spec:
  interval: 10m
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: steward-crds
      version: 0.0.0+latest
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: butlerlabs
        namespace: flux-system
---
# Step 2: HelmRelease for operator
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: steward
  namespace: steward-system
spec:
  interval: 10m
  dependsOn:
    - name: steward-crds
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: steward
      version: 0.0.0+latest
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: butlerlabs
        namespace: flux-system
```

!!! note "CRD Management Options"
    The steward chart includes CRDs in its `crds/` directory. Using the separate steward-crds chart is optional and beneficial for:

    - GitOps workflows requiring separate CRD lifecycle management
    - Organizations with policies requiring separate CRD approval
    - Scenarios where CRD updates must precede operator updates

    For standard installations, using the steward chart alone is sufficient.

## Flux as the GitOps operator

As GitOps ensures a constant reconciliation to a Git-versioned desired state, [Flux](https://fluxcd.io) can satisfy the requirement of those scenarios. In particular, the controllers that reconcile [resources](https://fluxcd.io/flux/concepts/#reconciliation) support communicating to external clusters.

In this scenario the Flux toolkit would run in the *Management Cluster*, with reconcile controllers reconciling resources into *Tenant Clusters*.

![Architecture](../images/steward-flux.png)

This is something possible as the Flux reconciliation Custom Resources specifications provide ability to specify `Secret` which contain a `kubeconfig` - here you can find the related documentation for both [`Kustomization`](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomization/#remote-clusters--cluster-api) and [`HelmRelease`](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/helm/helmreleases/#remote-clusters--cluster-api) CRs.

## Quickstart

Once a `TenantControlPlane` is [deployed](https://steward.butlerlabs.io/getting-started/#deploy-tenant-control-plane), the kubeconfig for the admin user can be found in a `Secret` named as *<tenant name>-admin-kubeconfig*, in the same `Namespace` where the resource has been created.

Let's suppose a `TenantControlPlane` named *tenant1* has been deployed in the *tenants* `Namespace`, a `Secret` named *tenant1-admin-kubeconfig* is created in the *tenants* `Namespace`.


```shell
$ kubectl get tenantcontrolplanes.steward.butlerlabs.io -n tenants
NAME      VERSION   STATUS   CONTROL-PLANE-ENDPOINT   KUBECONFIG                 AGE
tenant1   v1.25.1   Ready    172.18.0.2:31443         tenant1-admin-kubeconfig   108s
```

!!! info "Admin Permissions"
    As the *admin* user has *cluster-admin* `ClusterRole` it will have the necessary privileges to operate on Custom Resources too.

Given that Flux it's installed in the *Management Cluster* - guide [here](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/) - resources can be ensured for specifics Tenant Clusters, by filling the `spec.kubeConfig` field of the Flux reconciliation resource.

For example, it might be needed to ensure [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) is installed into a *tenant1* cluster with Helm. It can be done by declaring an `HelmRelease` as follows:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmRepository
metadata:
  name: jetstack
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1m
  url: 	https://charts.jetstack.io
---
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: tenant1-cert-manager
  namespace: tenants
spec:
  interval: 5m
  kubeConfig:
    secretRef:
      name: tenant1-admin-kubeconfig
      key: admin.conf
  targetNamespace: default
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: cert-manager
      version: v1.10.1
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: jetstack
        namespace: flux-system
      interval: 1m
  values:
    replicaCount: 2
```

and applying it in the *Management Cluster*, alongside the related *jetstack* `HelmRepository`, in the *tenants* `Namespace`.

The result would be having Cert Manager installed in the *default* `Namespace` of the tenant *tenant1*'s cluster:

```shell
$ kubectl get secret -n tenants tenant1-admin-kubeconfig -o=jsonpath='{.data.admin\.conf}' | base64 -d > /tmp/tenant-1.kubeconfig
$ kubectl --kubeconfig /tmp/tenant-1.kubeconfig get deploy -n default
NAME                              READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
tenant1-cert-manager              2/2     2            2           4m3s
tenant1-cert-manager-cainjector   1/1     1            1           4m3s
tenant1-cert-manager-webhook      1/1     1            1           4m3s
```

No matter what the tenant users will do on the *Tenant Cluster*, the Flux reconciliation controllers wirunning in the *Management Cluster* will ensure the desired state declared by the reconciliation resources applied existing in the *Management Cluster*, will be reconciled in the *Tenant Cluster*.

Furthermore, this approach does not need to have in each Tenant Cluster nor Flux neither applied the related reconciliation Custom Resorces.
