docs/content/reference/configuration.md, before:

## Configuration

Currently, **Kamaji** allows customization using CLI flags for the `manager` subcommand.

Available flags are the following:

| Flag                              | Usage                                                                                                                                                                              | Default                                        |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `--metrics-bind-address`          | The address the metric endpoint binds to.                                                                                                                                          | `:8080`                                        |
| `--health-probe-bind-address`     | The address the probe endpoint binds to.                                                                                                                                           | `:8081`                                        |
| `--leader-elect`                  | Enable leader election for controller manager. Enabling this will ensure there is only one active controller manager.                                                              | `true`                                         |
| `--tmp-directory`                 | Directory which will be used to work with temporary files.                                                                                                                         | `/tmp/kamaji`                                  |
| `--kine-image`                    | Container image along with tag to use for the Kine sidecar container (used only if etcd-storage-type is set to one of kine strategies).                                            | `rancher/kine:v0.11.10-amd64`                  |
| `--datastore`                     | The default DataStore that should be used by Kamaji to setup the required storage.                                                                                                 | `etcd`                                         |
| `--migrate-image`                 | Specify the container image to launch when a TenantControlPlane is migrated to a new datastore.                                                                                    | `migrate-image`                                |
| `--max-concurrent-tcp-reconciles` | Specify the number of workers for the Tenant Control Plane controller (beware of CPU consumption).                                                                                 | `1`                                            |
| `--pod-namespace`                 | The Kubernetes Namespace on which the Operator is running in, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                                                  | `os.Getenv("POD_NAMESPACE")`                   |
| `--webhook-service-name`          | The Kamaji webhook server Service name which is used to get validation webhooks, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                               | `kamaji-webhook-service`                       |
| `--serviceaccount-name`           | The Kubernetes ServiceAccount used by the Operator, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                                                            | `os.Getenv("SERVICE_ACCOUNT")`                 |
| `--webhook-ca-path`               | Path to the Manager webhook server CA, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                                                                         | `/tmp/k8s-webhook-server/serving-certs/ca.crt` |
| `--controller-reconcile-timeout`  | The reconciliation request timeout before the controller withdraw the external resource calls, such as dealing with the Datastore, or the Tenant Control Plane API endpoint.       | `30s`                                          |
| `--cache-resync-period`           | The controller-runtime.Manager cache resync period.                                                                                                                                | `10h`                                          |
| `--zap-devel`                     | Development Mode (encoder=consoleEncoder,logLevel=Debug,stackTraceLevel=Warn). Production Mode (encoder=jsonEncoder,logLevel=Info,stackTraceLevel=Error).                          | `true`                                         |
| `--zap-encoder`                   | Zap log encoding, one of 'json' or 'console'                                                                                                                                       | `console`                                      |
| `--zap-log-level`                 | Zap Level to configure the verbosity of logging. Can be one of 'debug', 'info', 'error', or any integer value > 0 which corresponds to custom debug levels of increasing verbosity | `info`                                         |
| `--zap-stacktrace-level`          | Zap Level at and above which stacktraces are captured (one of 'info', 'error', 'panic').                                                                                           | `info`                                         |
| `--zap-time-encoding`             | Zap time encoding (one of 'epoch', 'millis', 'nano', 'iso8601', 'rfc3339' or 'rfc3339nano')                                                                                        | `epoch`                                        |

Commit message:

feat: complete Steward rebrand from Kamaji
Complete rebrand of Clastix Kamaji fork to Butler Labs Steward.

Core Changes:
- Module: github.com/butlerdotdev/steward
- API group: steward.butlerlabs.dev/v1alpha1
- Container: ghcr.io/butlerdotdev/steward
- Namespace: steward-system
- Helm charts: charts/steward/, charts/steward-crds/

Removed:
- Clastix telemetry client and controller
- Clastix maintainer references
- Commercial/paywall messaging

Added:
- Dockerfile for container builds
- NOTICE file with Apache 2.0 attribution

Testing:
- 68 unit tests passing
- Build verified
- CRD generation verified
- Container image built and pushed
- Helm installation verified on live cluster
- All controllers starting correctly

Image: ghcr.io/butlerdotdev/steward:v0.1.0-alpha

Based on Kamaji by Clastix Labs (Apache 2.0)

docs/content/reference/configuration.md, after:

## Configuration

Currently, **Steward** allows customization using CLI flags for the `manager` subcommand.

Available flags are the following:

| Flag                              | Usage                                                                                                                                                                              | Default                                        |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `--metrics-bind-address`          | The address the metric endpoint binds to.                                                                                                                                          | `:8080`                                        |
| `--health-probe-bind-address`     | The address the probe endpoint binds to.                                                                                                                                           | `:8081`                                        |
| `--leader-elect`                  | Enable leader election for controller manager. Enabling this will ensure there is only one active controller manager.                                                              | `true`                                         |
| `--tmp-directory`                 | Directory which will be used to work with temporary files.                                                                                                                         | `/tmp/steward`                                  |
| `--kine-image`                    | Container image along with tag to use for the Kine sidecar container (used only if etcd-storage-type is set to one of kine strategies).                                            | `rancher/kine:v0.11.10-amd64`                  |
| `--datastore`                     | The default DataStore that should be used by Steward to setup the required storage.                                                                                                 | `etcd`                                         |
| `--migrate-image`                 | Specify the container image to launch when a TenantControlPlane is migrated to a new datastore.                                                                                    | `migrate-image`                                |
| `--max-concurrent-tcp-reconciles` | Specify the number of workers for the Tenant Control Plane controller (beware of CPU consumption).                                                                                 | `1`                                            |
| `--pod-namespace`                 | The Kubernetes Namespace on which the Operator is running in, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                                                  | `os.Getenv("POD_NAMESPACE")`                   |
| `--webhook-service-name`          | The Steward webhook server Service name which is used to get validation webhooks, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                               | `steward-webhook-service`                       |
| `--serviceaccount-name`           | The Kubernetes ServiceAccount used by the Operator, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                                                            | `os.Getenv("SERVICE_ACCOUNT")`                 |
| `--webhook-ca-path`               | Path to the Manager webhook server CA, required for the TenantControlPlane migration jobs.                                                                                         | `/tmp/k8s-webhook-server/serving-certs/ca.crt` |
| `--controller-reconcile-timeout`  | The reconciliation request timeout before the controller withdraw the external resource calls, such as dealing with the Datastore, or the Tenant Control Plane API endpoint.       | `30s`                                          |
| `--cache-resync-period`           | The controller-runtime.Manager cache resync period.                                                                                                                                | `10h`                                          |
| `--zap-devel`                     | Development Mode (encoder=consoleEncoder,logLevel=Debug,stackTraceLevel=Warn). Production Mode (encoder=jsonEncoder,logLevel=Info,stackTraceLevel=Error).                          | `true`                                         |
| `--zap-encoder`                   | Zap log encoding, one of 'json' or 'console'                                                                                                                                       | `console`                                      |
| `--zap-log-level`                 | Zap Level to configure the verbosity of logging. Can be one of 'debug', 'info', 'error', or any integer value > 0 which corresponds to custom debug levels of increasing verbosity | `info`                                         |
| `--zap-stacktrace-level`          | Zap Level at and above which stacktraces are captured (one of 'info', 'error', 'panic').                                                                                           | `info`                                         |
| `--zap-time-encoding`             | Zap time encoding (one of 'epoch', 'millis', 'nano', 'iso8601', 'rfc3339' or 'rfc3339nano')                                                                                        | `epoch`                                        |
